is Colossians chapter 4 verse 2.
Continue earnestly in prayer being vigilant in it with thanksgiving.
Meanwhile praying also for us that God would open to us a door for the word to speak the mystery of Christ for which I am also in chains that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak.
Walk in wisdom
toward those who are outside redeeming the time.
Let your speech always be with grace seasoned with salt that you may know how you ought to answer each one.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Amen.
May God add his blessing to the reading of the word.
You may be seated.
So we're talking about
alignment and how we get aligned.
And part of the alignment process we talked about being aligned with the community, with our hearts being aligned.
We talked about having the roots and the routes and the other kind of roots established last Sunday.
And this week, we talked about being equipped.
And the verse that kind of pulls us all together is a familiar verse to many of us.
In 2 Timothy chapter 3,
verses 16 and 17.
And part of it says about the Word of God that we study it that the man of God may be complete thoroughly equipped for every good work.
I want to talk about equipment because I think you're going to relate to equipment best by understanding why a firefighter has to have good equipment.
Did you know
When a firefighter enters a birding building, he doesn't go because he feels brave.
Like, I can beat this fire.
He doesn't feel that way.
What he feels like is he goes in because he's trained how to deal with it, how to handle it.
And his equipment that he wears, it doesn't remove the danger of the fire, but it protects him from things that might be surprises or things like that.
has to have that to be able to go to that front line of the fire and still breathe come out standing to fight the next one.
And so the equipment prepares them to act effectively in the midst of danger and fire.
Without that equipment, if they're not properly equipped, they cannot do that.
They will not be able to fight another fire without it.
And the church is kind of like firefighters.
we're called into a world that is on fire.
It's not the right kind of fire either.
I'm not talking about fire the Holy Spirit.
I'm talking about the fire of passion and lust and sin and anger and all of those things that this world calls into.
So the question about service isn't whether we're willing to go into the world, but whether we're equipped
when we do go.
Because if you don't have the right equipment or the right training, you are not going to know what to do and you're going to feel very uncomfortable about going.
So we have some training we need and some fires burning that we have to be equipped to handle.
For example, last year when I was getting ready to go to Africa, I had no idea what to expect, no idea how to talk to people,
or anything like that.
So I had to go through some cultural training to understand who they were as a people, to understand what to say.
I couldn't just go in blind and go, well, I'll just say whatever God tells me to say, because that would have been kind of foolish to train people on whatever God wanted me to say for 40 hours.
I just not ever seen that happen except for the Apostle Paul.
So I had to be equipped.
I had to be trained and I had to learn.
And even while I was there, I had to learn more and more and more.
And what's interesting is I'll need to be retrained in a few months because some of that stuff I've forgotten because we don't use it.
We lose it.
So there are ways that we are equipped.
And the one way that we want to look at first is that we are equipped by God's Word.
Let me tell you something.
People can read the Bible, but you got to get something out of it that changes you.
Because God's Word is not just information.
It's formation.
It forms you.
It transforms you.
It can make you into a new creation.
God's Word trains our responses.
Disciplines our thinking.
sharpens our discernment and some of those things we need to have happen more than others in Another translation it says in this verse in 2nd Timothy you will be God serving fully mature and Perfectly prepared to fulfill any assignment God gives you that's a
I believe that's the message translation that says it like that.
So when we are, what I'd like to call word equipped, because you got to have the foundation of scripture, we're ready for real world encounters.
This word that's translated as equipped means fully furnished or appropriately
fitted for the work you're about to do.
So when it says that the Word of God equips us, fully equips us, it's saying that we are furnished with the right stuff to do what God is wanting us to do.
And until that moment, we don't know what that is we need until the Word girds us fully with what we need.
So the Word is very important that we stay faithful to it.
One of the most difficult things for a faithful believer is to sometimes be diligent and consistent in studying the word.
Sometimes reading the Bible comes later rather than as a priority.
And that won't get us equipped.
We're also equipped by the Holy Spirit.
In Acts chapter 1, Jesus tells the disciples, you will receive power and then you shall be witnesses.
So you receive the power from the Holy Spirit and then you become witnesses.
The Spirit, the Holy Spirit, equips us to engage hearts, not to create arguments.
Peter's transformation from fear to boldness wasn't about his personality.
It was about the Holy Spirit empowering him.
When the Holy Spirit comes on you, so what Jesus says, you will be able to be my witnesses.
Peter wasn't so good until that happened.
But the day of Pentecost, when it happened, 3000 were added to the church.
He never had that much success at anything before that that I can recall.
But on that day, when the Holy Spirit came, the power came on the day of Pentecost.
You know I didn't say yes to Africa because I had this holy boldness about myself.
Question why society is changing so rapidly?
Are you searching for the reasons why?
Join us on the Rise Radio Podcast.
For a journey of discovery, as we wrestle with the latest social narratives, belief systems, ancient prophecies, strange phenomena, and spirituality, your worldview will never be the same again.
Rise above the noise.
Visit riseradio.net today.
I went because I trusted God was sending me and as you know I went excited and afraid.
I don't want to ignore the work God asked me to do because I'm not confident in it.
I want to fulfill it and I encourage you to think this same way.
I will do what God asked me to do even if I'm not confident knowing he will equip me.
By the word and by the Spirit, He will teach me what I need to know.
He will help me.
And we get equipped by our experience too.
In 2 Corinthians chapter 1 it says, He comforts us so that we can comfort others.
The same comfort which He gives us, we offer to another.
And let me explain what I mean by that.
Every healed wound becomes a part of your equipping kit.
Your scars don't disqualify you.
They authenticate you.
You might say, well, I don't know what you mean.
All they do is hurt and remind me of things of pain.
Well, that's good because a former alcoholic helps another.
A person who lost a child helps another.
A person who struggles with depression helps another because they understand what it feels like, what that experience is like, and they can speak the same language and someone is going through it currently can see they made it through.
There is hope.
There is a way out.
There is a way through.
Those moments of equipping are very painful when it scars and things like that.
but they produce fruit in its season.
A formerly homeless person can help another homeless person that another person who has not been would avoid.
So the question you might ask and answer is, what is it that's caused me hurt and scars in my life?
that I might be able to relate that to another going through it now.
Because that's God equipping you, preparing you for that kind of witness to His goodness.
And if you're going through it now, you can say, God, please use this for your glory, because this is not fun.
It never is fun.
It's painful when those wounds happen.
But when God uses them to help another, we go, it was worth it.
Thank God he could use this, and he didn't waste my pain or my hurt.
And he equips us not just individually, but as a body.
As a body of Christ in Ephesians chapter 4, it says that leaders equip saints for the work of ministry.
The church's strength is a mobilized body.
We are like a mass unit.
or a first aid, first responder out to the scene of broken lives.
We're the first on the scene, or we are supposed to be.
We are not a single gifted individual.
We do it together, not one person, but as a church.
Every member has been given divine gifts to the contribute to the growth of all.
Listen to what Ephesians 4 verses 11 through 16 say.
And Jesus himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers for the equipping of the saints, for the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, until we all come to the unity of faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ.
that we should no longer be children tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine by the trickery of men in the cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting but speaking the truth in love may grow up in all things into him who's the head Christ in verse 16 from whom the whole body joined and knit together by what every joint supplies according to the effective work by which
every part does its share, causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in love.
That's Ephesians chapter 4 verse 11 through 16.
And those are verses you may want to read over and over again to remind yourself.
And what you're reminding yourself, you are indispensable to God's plan.
He didn't save you for no reason.
He saved you to be a blessing.
and healing and that your story would bring others to hope.
That's what this positioning alignment series is all about.
Equipping you for what God wants us to do.
We can't go forward without knowing how to do so and where He's calling us.
Those processes of discernment and equipment
of our lives and of our church are indispensable for what God has us to do.
And so God is equipping us to engage conversations.
In 1 Peter chapter 3 verse 15, it says, always be ready to explain your hope with gentleness and respect.
In other words, I always tell folks this, have an elevator testimony, a two-minute testimony, and a 10-minute testimony.
If you don't know what I mean by that, if you can tell your story about what God's done for you in 30 seconds, that's an elevator testimony.
What you can tell in two minutes is because someone says, well, I want to hear more.
And you share, they extend it to two minutes.
And they say, that's amazing.
Always be ready to have a 10-minute testimony to give God the glory of what He's done in your life.
And make sure it's current.
Not something that happened 30 years ago, but something that happened back then that God is still using today.
And you can share that.
So what is the framework for engaging in conversation?
If you've ever been to Cairo's ministry, you'll know the first one is listen first.
Always listen to them first.
And then we relate personally to their story, see if it plugs into ours.
We invite gently after that, and then we follow through.
If you look at Jesus and what He did in John chapter four with the woman at the well, first of all, He listened, but He began with water, meeting the need, opening the conversation, even though
It was a woman and a Samaritan, both of whom he was not supposed to talk to.
So that water opened up the eternal need.
They began to change the conversation from water in a well to water of eternal life.
And here's the most important part of that framework.
It's followed through.
You know, that's the most important part.
A lot of us, we invite someone to church to say, I asked them, they said no.
Do you guys come again?
Well, I asked them one more time a few weeks ago, they said no.
Did you know you shouldn't give up on a no?
If you're a salesman and you give up on two no's, you're not a salesman.
You're a person looking for rejection.
So you can go do something else.
You're not trying to sell.
You're trying to find a no.
Well, the truth is you get enough no's.
You finally get a yes.
You got to keep getting no's and have fixed skin when people say no.
And I'll tell you why, because the best trained salesman know it takes a minimum of five no's to get to the first yes from one person.
80% of the time it takes five no's to get to one yes.
So if you've invited someone to church,
And they said no, or somewhere else, and they said no, keep count.
When you get to five, they're about to say yes.
So don't give up.
Because if you give up, you know what's going to happen?
You'll never get the yes.
It's true.
Sometimes we just think they aren't interested.
In fact, this, they just don't trust.
It takes a while to build trust.
So we need to be equipped to endure.
In Galatians chapter 6, it says, let's not allow ourselves to get fatigued in doing good.
We will harvest at the right time.
You know, between the old and new Testament, they call it the 400-year period of silence.
400 years, praying from the side.
waiting for profit, waiting for change.
And all that was happening was the world history was beginning to be positioned for the Roman Empire to usher in the perfect circumstance for the Christ child to be born.
But could you imagine the world slowly transforming, but it's not yet the right time,
I like him this to an engagement period when you're courting someone and you want to, you know, be together for the rest of your life, but you still got to go through the process of getting ready.
And so you set a date and you set a time.
And until that day and time comes, it hasn't happened.
God set it in motion.
He set a date and a time, but he didn't tell us what it was.
And he said, I'm going to send forth my son, but you won't know when it is, but I know when it's going to be because I got everything said in motion for it.
So keep hanging in there.
The harvest will come in the fullness of times, says scripture.
God sent forth his son in the fullness.
He can't send him early.
It has to be as God is perfectly timed.
God.
is setting circumstances in motion in your life and in the people around you to set the harvest at the right time and endurance and waiting can be hard.
I don't question that at all.
So we have these excuses and we call them reasons to not do something or to continue.
Let me tell you something.
We can easily justify what we don't want to do.
Did you know that?
But we're justifying it to ourself.
Nobody else is going to listen to our justification, but we go, well, I was tired, so I didn't want to go.
That's a good enough reason for me.
Now I justify it, and I don't have to do it.
I didn't feel like it.
Some kids, that's enough.
A little boy gets in the suburban every day.
He goes, I don't want to go to school.
I'm going, point me.
Shut up.
Get in the car.
We don't care if you want to go.
You're still going, but I don't.
I said, button it up.
Nobody wants to hear that and you're going anyway, so you might as well figure out how to enjoy yourself.
Because to him, not wanting to is enough of an excuse, but he's five.
And by the time you're six, don't work anymore.
Nobody else can want to listen to that either.
Just because you don't want to do something doesn't mean that you aren't called to do it.
So don't give those reasons.
The reasons not to do something pale
in comparison to the call of God on your life.
When you look at the big picture, it really is.
They look immature and they look childish compared to the call of God.
Well, I wanted you to talk to your neighbor because they were heartbroken and they didn't have any hope.
And if you'll just go over there and talk to them, maybe their thoughts of suicide dissipate.
I don't want to.
How's that more important than saving a life?
If God asks you to go, right?
So the spirit will equip you for output and endurance.
Fatigue just means you're human, not that you're failing.
We all get tired, but it doesn't mean we fail.
It just means we're tired.
I don't know a single person who doesn't get tired from time to time, but there's some who do it anyway.
So we are equipped to endure and we're equipped with the love of God inside of us, which causes us to be equipped with compassion.
In Colossians chapter three, verse 12, it says, clothe yourself with tender hearted mercy.
Clothe yourself with kindness, humility, gentleness and patience.
Without compassion, preparation becomes performance.
If you don't really care about what you're doing, you're doing it just to get it done or to show what you look like doing it and how good you are.
But compassion turns doors into pathways.
That's why your hurt speaks to someone else who has the same kind of hurt because it opens doors to it and you understand it.
When I was a chaplain in Cincinnati Twin Towers retirement community, I worked weekends, Saturdays and Sundays, and Friday evening, and they would house me on the campus there.
It was a living retirement center, had apartments, had houses on the outskirts, and up to a level for a nursing facility, so different levels for different things.
And one day I went to the level three, which is basically folks like in a nursing home, not quite needing full-time nursing care.
And I would go up there and I would sing and play music.
And one day I asked the chaplain if I could offer holy communion.
And they said, yeah, sure.
So I got the little communion kits like we used with a little cup and a little piece of bread.
At that time, they weren't in the same package, so they were separate.
And I would take them around to the residence after I played and sang.
Well, I didn't think much about it as I went around, but I had a nurse help me so that she could carry some of the elements and I could do the other.
And we walked up to several people, gave the communion and the appreciative of it.
Walked to this lady in a wheelchair and I offered it to her and she took it and she said, thank you.
It's been a long time.
The nurse almost fell on her face.
And I'm thinking, it's been a long time as what she was thinking.
Like, and she said to me a humanist life, she said, the woman has not said a word in three years.
To me, you can open her eyes in her mouth.
There was something about that compassion, offering something.
Do you think that that was difficult for me to do?
No!
It was just another person in the line for me, but for her it was transformative.
What do I mean by that?
I have a person this week started riding in the suburban and it's a sixth grader.
She and her brother are at a hotel and they started getting on the suburban on Wednesday.
They got in and she handed me two muffins.
off of the hotel breakfast bar and I was like I didn't expect this and she said well you give us a ride to school and I wanted to give you a muffin and we're riding along and I said you know I've given you ride a lot of times on the bus and you never gave me a muffin you know what she said
I didn't have any to give you.
God asks us only to give what we have, and he equips us to give what we have.
Not what we need to acquire, other than some training to be willing to use what we have.
When she said that, my heart melted.
I went, okay, so she's doing it because she has access to it.
And she didn't have to.
She didn't have to.
But she did.
I mean, it was free to her in the hotel, right?
Something was free to her.
But she still didn't have to bring it out and think of me in that process.
She said, I did this because I could.
Guys ask you to do things because you can.
Even if they don't seem big to you or cost you anything other than a kind word or decent way to say hello.
So how do we put this all into application for our lives?
want to kind of sum up keep yourself fresh in the scripture every day equip your heart with prayer before you interact before you face your day make sure your home and your heart is a place of welcome and discipleship that you're always ready to welcome and receive and equip and then be willing to serve beyond your comfort zone
Because if you serve in your comfort zone, you'll never leave your house.
So we equip yourself and your words with the grace of God as you interact with one another.
So as we go through this series, I'm asking God to get you uncomfortable in serving.
There is no reward without risk.
Faith
is risky faith got me living risky okay but not living in faith means your faith is a dead faith faith serves faith seeks to be equipped to faith better and faith trusts God will never call you to fail would you pray with me
Lord, thank You for not only calling us, but willing to equip us, strengthen us by Your Word, and power us by Your Spirit, and soften us with Your compassion.
Let every conversation that we have, every connection we make, and every act of kindness reflect You.
Prepare us to engage our world with courage and humility, and to do so in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
I'm closing the interview number 5.